WSClean version 3.1
===================

Released 2022-04-01

New/changed dependencies:

* To make use of IDG, WSClean 3.1 requires `IDG version 1.0 <https://git.astron.nl/RD/idg/-/releases/1.0.0>`_ or newer.
* To make use of EveryBeam, WSClean 3.1 requires `EveryBeam version 0.3.1 <https://git.astron.nl/RD/EveryBeam/-/releases/v0.3.1>`_.

Summary: :doc:`Facet-based imaging <facet_based_imaging>` is significantly improved, and now supports applying per-facet solutions (from H5Parm files) and beam corrections (from EveryBeam). Stokes-I-only imaging with IDG imaging is now significantly faster. WSClean 3.1 also adds experimental support for GMRT primary beam correction.

Major & visible changes
-----------------------

* Support time-direction :ref:`baseline-dependently averaged data from DP3 <BDA_DP3>`.
* Reduce disk-access during :ref:`IDG <image_domain_gridding>` Stokes I imaging by not storing XY/YX to disk, and enable the faster IDG Stokes I mode when possible.
* Use the ``...-pb.fits`` file when predicting with beam correction.
* Cache average beam to disk in IDG mode to reduce memory usage.
* Add support for the GMRT beam (scientific validation still in progress).
* Add a beam-normalisation-mode option to control EveryBeam's normalisation mode.
* Support multiple h5 files in facetting mode.
* Introduce ``-pb-grid-size`` and deprecate ``-pb-undersampling``.

Bug fixes
---------

* Report error when user asks for incorrect channel selection.
* Certain selection parameters no longer worked in reorder mode (e.g. even/odd timestep selection).
* Correctly normalize reported flux levels for squared channels.
* Fix a crash with the ``-reuse-dirty`` option in certain modes.
* Fix segmentation fault when using ``-reuse-psf`` with IDG.
* Fix masked parallel deconvolution.
* Fix beam + H5 solution application in facetting mode.
* Fix possible ``-facet-regions`` mismatch with H5Parms.
* Support differential lofar beam in facet-based imaging.
* Support scalar gain corrections in facet-based imaging.
* Do not apply beam or solutions to PSF in facet-based imaging.
* Fix unset threadcount value in imageweights class.
* Fix IUWT. Because of code clean-ups in Nov 2020, the IUWT deconvolution option was no longer producing correct results.
* Fix channel selection issue for non-uniform multi-SPW sets (#79).
* Fix rare crash caused by uninitialized array.
* Fix compilation on hurd-i386.

Other significant code changes
------------------------------

* WSClean now requires a compiler that supports C++17.
* Support for gcc-11 was added.
* Lots of refactoring.
* Preparations to split off deconvolution code as a separate reusable module.
* Several documentation improvements / updates.
* Better support and error reporting for missing git submodules.
* Many new unit and system tests.
